History of the SpuriousEmu Project by a Project Insider.

I am WoW Adict the Founder of the SpuriousEmu Project.

I recently saw a request for some history on SpuriousEmu, I am a bit sketchy on the beginings of the emulator
that the SpuriousEmu was based on, and my memory not being what it used to be, I can not really remember the
years these events happened in.  Saying that, I will attempt to give a detailed history of the SpuriousEmu Project.

I had been playing with emulators for a number of years, starting back in the days when you HAD to run a hacked
client in order to connect to the private server software.  Even before there were MySql databases, when you had
scp script files you could modify to add creatures, NPC's, Items and so on.  I really enjoyed being able to run
a server on my own computers, and have control over things.  It was a very fun hobby even though it took some
work to get things to run some times.

I work for a software development company, and we were going to make the jump at work from using Visual Basic 6,
to using VB.NET, so I had to start learning to program using VB.NET.  It occured to me, that I could combine my
favorite hobby of playing with WoW Emulators and learning VB.NET by working on an emulator using VB.NET.  So,
I began searching around to see what I could find, not really knowing anything about the coding side of emulation,
In searching for emulators and VB.NET code I came across an emulator written using VB.NET, that had been abandoned.
This emulator was called VBWoWEmu.

It is my understanding that a community member named Gaddas had started an emulator named AWoWe, in Visual Basic 6.
Another community member named Spirit loaded that code into VB.NET and let the Visual Basic IDE convert it.  He then
did some work on fixing it up to run.

When I downloaded the public code that I could find that Spirit had out there, it would run and you could login, I
can not remember for sure, but I believe it was at client version 2.0.12 or some where in that area.  There was a
lot of things that worked, but still there were many things missing from the core.  But, since it was the only VB.NET
emulation code I could find at the time, I decided to base my emulator off of it.

I had to come up with a name for my emulator, since an emulator is basically a mock of some thing else, I though of
the word Spurious which is a mock, or conterfiet, I thought it would fit nicely for emulator, so the name SpuriousEmu
was born.

At the start SpuriousEmu could only handle one map at a time, and you had to set the map number as a compiler
variable and recompile every time you wanted to play with a new map.  So, I set out to find out what I could
about implementing multiple maps in the emulator, in asking on different forums, I started getting some answers
from a community member that goes by the name of Unix.  I started chatting with Unix on instant messaging, and it
turns out that he had not done a lot of stuff with VB.NET at that time, but was developing on a Visual Basic 6
emulator called vbWoW, he wanted to show that an emulator COULD be developed using Visual Basic.  During one of our
chats I told Unix, that since I had been using Visual Basic 6 for quite a while at work, I would help him with his
project if he could help me with implementing the muliple map handling in Spurious, he agreed.  If I remember correctly
Unix said he was looking at how some of the other emulators, such as Mangos was handling maps, and he started to work
on the map handling for Spurious, in just a few days he had implemented the map handling for the project.

So, for a little while the SpuriousEmu team consisted of Unix and me.  I had mentioned to Unix that the project was
based on an emulator that was actually started by some one name Gadas, and Unix told me he knew Gadas, and had contact
information so I could ask Gadas some questions about the emulator, Unix got permission from Gadas to give me the contact
information, and Gadas agreed.  While talking with Gadas, the networking code in Spurious was brought up, Gadas told
me that he had been thinking about how Clustering needed to be added to the project, that would allow for more people
to be connected since you could distribute the network processing across multiple servers for the world maps.  Gadas
agreed to give the clustering a shot, and he started implementing that into the SpuriousEmu code.  Now the team consisted
of three of us.  We started working on some of the packets and getting the emulator to work with the latest expansion
at that time, which was the Burning Crusage 2.4.3 client version.

In order to learn a little more about emulation I was doing some patches and and coding on some of the other emulators
around at that time.  I had done a small patch for Ascent and submitted that, and while looking to help with some of
the other emulators I met a community member named CoolManBob that was working on an emulator called Core of Time, I
started to help CoolManBob with his emulator, and he in turn started doing a little work on Spurious.

For a while the four of us was kicking out features and fixes on the core, and Things where going pretty smoothly,
other members started joining the team and some of them where doing some work, and some where just hanging around
but not really doing much.  I was pretty proud of my little SpuriousEmu team the the work they were doing.  We started
working on the 3.0.9 branch, and placed that out there on the public repository, we had a domain and forums up, and
I really thought things were going to start to blossom for the project.

Soon, the Wrath of The Litch King expansion came out, and we started to work on getting the emulator to work with the
3.3.5 clients.  Around this time things started to get a little rough among the Spurious Team, I started getting emails
and instant messages from some of the members, saying you need to get rid of this person or that person, as long as
they are on the team I will not being doing any work for you.

Soon, the discontent among the Spurious Team led to the Team members quiting.  One by one, my Team started to remove
themselves from the repository and forums and just leaving.  Soon, the team was back down to me, Unix and CoolManBob.

Unix announced that he was getting bored with WoW Emulation and was going to start working on other things.  So, now
pretty much the team was dead.  I was a little dismayed, I had growing to think of the project as kind of one of my
children. (Only a project leader would probably understand what I mean by that.)

I noticed that there were a lot of people still wanting to play the older versions of WoW, so I took it upon myself
to break up the source code in to different versions, like Mangos had done with thier emulator.  So, I ended up with
the source for the 2.4.3 version, the 3.0.9 (the last mostly full implementation we had) and the 3.3.5 version.

During in this time Unix had returned to the emulator scene and he took a copy of Spurious, and back ported it to work
with Vanilla WoW, as a matter of fact he called his project VanillaWoW, he implemented VMaps into his project, and
started to rework some of the systems such as the looting system, the combat system, the spell system and so on.

Unix, finally abandonded his project, but since it had VMaps and things like Multiple Databases in it, I checked his
project out of his repository when he made it public, and create a SpuriousZero version based on his work.  Kind of
funny really that he took Spurious and started his project based off of it, then I turned around and took his project
and ported it back to Spurious.  A couple of people helped me fix a few things with the re-ported SpuriousZero project.

Soon, no one was helping me any more, and my free time was getting valuable due to projects in the Real World (at work).
I asked around a few places, but could not get any one interested in helping me with the project any more, and thus
some time around the middle to end of 2010, the SpuriousEmu Project, pretty much died. (Rest in Peace my child.) :(

NOTE: After discussions with Antz from the Mangos Project, On September 01 2013 the SpuriousEmu Project officially
merged with the MangosVB Team (SpuriousEmu will be reborn as MangosVB).

So, there you have a pretty detailed explanation of the History of the SpuriousEmu Project.

Later.

W@WAdict.
 